Updates to comparisons (#7452)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/posthog-vs-mixpanel.mdx

import { ComparisonHeader } from 'components/ComparisonTable/header'
import { ComparisonRow } from 'components/ComparisonTable/row'

Want to know how PostHog and Mixpanel compare? If you remember nothing else, remember these two points:

1. Mixpanel is a product analytics tool only.

2. PostHog is an all-in-one platform that _includes_ product analytics and _much_ more.

## How is PostHog different?

### 1. It's more than product analytics

PostHog is the only product analytics platform built to natively work with session replay, feature flags, A/B testing, and surveys. This means you get all the tools you need to deploy new features, test their performance, observe and analyze how users interact with them, and gather feedback. Everything you need to truly understand user behavior, perfectly integrated.

### 2. It's built for engineers

> PostHog autocaptures data, so you don't need to waste energy instrumenting basic events. You can choose between light and dark mode themes. Features like our custom SQL query builder, keyboard shortcuts, and command palette, cater to power users. You can setup PostHog and start paying us without ever speaking to a sales rep, though our [customer success team](/contact-sales) is always available to answer your questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog autocaptures data, so you don't need to waste energy instrumenting basic events. You can choose between light and dark mode themes. Features like our custom SQL query builder, keyboard shortcuts, and command palette, cater to power users. You can use all the features of PostHog without ever speaking to a sales rep, though our [customer success team](/contact-sales) is always available to answer your questions.
```

> PostHog autocaptures data, so you don't need to waste energy instrumenting basic events. You can choose between light and dark mode themes. Features like our custom SQL query builder, keyboard shortcuts, and command palette, cater to power users. You can setup PostHog and start paying us without ever speaking to a sales rep, though our [customer success team](/contact-sales) is always available to answer your questions.

Author: ```suggestion
We support all popular (and some unpopular) [SDKs](/docs/libraries), have [extensively documented APIs](/docs/api), and a [powerful SQL query builder](/docs/hogql), so you can analyze data how you want. We make it easy to [test in production](/product-engineers/testing-in-production), conduct [phased rollouts](/tutorials/phased-rollout), run [beta programs](/tutorials/public-beta-program), and so much more.
```

### 3. We're open source and transparent

PostHog is [built on transparency](/blog/how-to-run-a-transparent-company). Our product is open source and released under an MIT License. You can read [our source code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog), raise issues and PRs, build your own integrations, and vote on our [public roadmap](/roadmap). Got a question? Ask it in our [community forum](/questions).

## Comparison PostHog and Mixpanel

### Platform

> Entering a credit card unlocks almost all our features and you **only pay for what you use**. You get a [generous free allowance](#pricing) _every_ month and you can set billing limits to prevent surprise bills.

Reviewer: This feels a bit out of place so early. I think it would be good with pricing, but probably not needed at this point in the article.

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Experiments" description="Run tests on new features, optimize conversion funnels" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="User surveys" description="Collect and analyze feedback, run NPS and PMF surveys " />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Beta" column2={false} feature="Customer data platform" description="Sync data with third-party tools" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Beta" column2={false} feature="Data warehouse" description="A single source for all your important data" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Heatmaps" description="Visualize where users click in your app or website" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Notebooks" description="Ad-hoc analysis and collaboration" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Dark mode" description="Choose between light and dark UI" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Build your own apps and contribute code" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Product analytics

There are two key differences here:

> 1. PostHog supports autocapture, which makes it much fast to implement as you don't to manually instrument every event. Don't want autocapture? Just [turn it off](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture) – we offer the best of both worlds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. PostHog supports autocapture, which makes it much faster to implement as you don't to manually instrument every event. Don't want autocapture? Just [turn it off](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture) and rely on one of our many SDKs – we offer the best of both worlds.
```

> 2. PostHog has a [SQL-based query builder](/docs/hogql) for power users, which enables you to generate custom data analyses using PostHog event data. In future, our query builder will let you analyze data as you would in a Business Intelligence tool, like Metabase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. PostHog has a [SQL-based query builder](/docs/hogql) for power users, which enables you to generate custom data analyses using PostHog event data. In future, our query builder will let you analyze data as you would in a business intelligence tool, like Metabase.
```
Same point about Metabase confusion as Amplitude guide.

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Multivariate flags" description="Flags with multiple customizable values" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Payloads" description="Flags with string, number, or JSON payloads" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Local evaluation" description="Store flag definitions locally" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Percentage rollouts" description="Target percentages of a group" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Custom targeting" description="Target users based on user properties, custom contexts" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Beta" column2={false} feature="Scheduling" description="Schedule flags to turn on or off" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Partial" column2={false} feature="Environments" description="Manage flags for dev, stage, prod" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Bootstrapping" description="Flags available on frontend application load" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Early access" description="Manage betas, test features" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Experimentation

> PostHog's testing features are free when you enter card details. You get a generous 1 million API requests every month, so you'll pay nothing if you remain below this limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog's AB testing features are free when you enter card details. You get a generous 1 million API requests every month, so you'll pay nothing if you remain below this limit.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Performance monitoring" description="Track network events within a session" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Privacy masking" description="Censor personal information from playback" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Conditional recording" description="Only capture the sessions you want" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="DOM explorer" description="Explore an interactive snapshot of replays" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Export recordings" description="Save important recordings offline" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Minimum duration" description="Only record sessions longer than the minimum duration" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Sample recorded sessions" description="Restrict the percentage of sessions that will be recorded" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Record via feature flag" description="Only record sessions for users that have the flag enabled" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Surveys

> Surveys are great for tracking customer satisfaction scores like Net Promoter Score (NPS), customer satisfaction (CSAT), and customer effort score (CES). We include survey templates for all these and more – read our [guide comparing NPS, CSAT and CES](/product-engineers/nps-vs-csat-vs-ces) to see which survey type you should use and when.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Surveys are great for tracking customer satisfaction scores like Net Promoter Score (NPS), customer satisfaction (CSAT), and customer effort score (CES). We include survey templates for all these and more. Read our [guide comparing NPS, CSAT, and CES](/product-engineers/nps-vs-csat-vs-ces) to see which survey type you should use and when.  
```
